---
layout: post
title:      "**What got me into programming?**"
date:       2019-12-22 14:58:50 -0500
permalink:  what_got_me_into_programming
---

I got interested in programming from a very young age, through playing video games I gained an interest in how they worked.  I wanted to know what went into making the characters move and the creation of the world I was playing in. I knew it was connected to coding but I could not understand how lines of code could create something like a game or interactive websites. I always wondered but never dabbled in programming, simply because I did not know where to begin. Fastforward to senior year of highschool when it was time to apply for colleges and declare what major you were pursuing, I decided on computer science because my interest in programming was stiil alive and I thought I finally have some sort of path. College and computer science did not work out the way I imagined it, the first 2 years I learned nothing related to coding. I imagined it to be different I started thinking that maybe college and computer science was not for me but I did not have another path to take I did not know where to go from there if I left. Since my parents were paying out of pocket for college I decided to leave otherwise I would just be wasting their money and my time. So I started to work and decided that I would resume college when I had enough saved but I always felt like that plan would not work considering I generally did not like the computer science major or what they were teaching me. So I kept working numerous jobs trying to build my work experience so I could get a decent paying job and while doing that I was trying to find a way to start my programming career without college. I found out about free coding courses online and even some free bootcamps online that's when I my passion for coding amplified. It was sort of dying down after the disappointment of college and not knowing what to do or which direction to go after leaving but when I found the free courses online I was really excited and coud not wait to learn. However after hours spent on multiple sources of free courses I hit a wall or realization, most of the courses sort of held your hand with the tutorials and when it came time for the test it felt very overwhelming. At first you are learning basic things then out of the blue you get hit with something that seems alien and you have to figure it out, well at least that's what it felt like to me. Then I found out about bootcamps I took an interest but the one thing that held me back was the money. However through a close friend of mine who was already attending Flatiron School he told me about their ISO payment option and I thought maybe this is the path i'm supposed to follow. Without thinking I just enrolled because I knew if I pondered on it I would just take too much time, time I could spend getting started on a new career path. I should mainly be thanking my girlfriend who pushed me to enroll, she knew about my passion for coding and in the past when I would think about getting another job on top of the job I was working that would be just to "get by" she would always tell me to stick with my passion that something would come along I just have to keep looking. So now here I am enrolled in Flatiron aspiring to be a software engineer, most of the time having no idea what i'm doing or how to approach the problems but honestly i've learned so much in the first 2 weeks here than I have anywhere else and the gratifying feeling you get when you grasp the concept of the lessons and put them into practice is amazing. 
