---
layout: post
title:      " *My first project*"
date:       2020-01-19 15:08:53 +0000
permalink:  my_first_project
---


Before project week began I was dreading it, I wasn't sure how I was going to start this project and what it was going to be on. Leading up to project week I made sure to watch and read anything relating to the project either on scraping or APIs. When it was time to start, I decided on going the API route instead of scraping but I was considering doing both to see what would be better for me. I started by Googling free open APIs and I found the Anime API, it seemed interesting enough. I started to code and I was going to keep it very simple just to meet the requirements because I knew if I tried to do anything more I would be spending a lot of time on it and before you know it the deadline is here. I started with the API file and got all my links in order and made sure to require whatever gem I needed for it to work, I would later move these gems into another folder. Everything seemed to be going alright I was slowly approaching each method, class, and file until my pry wasn't working. It would initiate but when I typed nothing would show up so that wasn't good, I thought I wrote something wrong somewhere that was interfering with it somehow. Then my VScode editor started to freeze up after a while and that's when I got worried so I restarted vscode and it seemed to be working alright again. Then when I tried to run my API file to see if everything was working I kept getting uninitialized constant, a class error which was weird to me since I did create the class API and I wasn't sure what it could be and that's when I ran into the issue of my bash terminal returning with a message that said unstable world when I tried to save. I recently followed the windows tutorial for setting up a local environment and everything was going fine until I saw that message I figured I did something wrong while setting up so I redid the setup and I got the same message while working in vscode. So I was panicking and realized I had to use something else just to get this project done because I didn't want to waste any of the time I had trying to deal with this problem that I had no idea of where to start. I decided to use the learn sandbox and started over I was thinking if I should do it on something different since this was a clean slate but that would be wasting more time than I feel I didn't have. I stayed with the same API and this time everything was working just fine better than my own botched local environment setup. Then I ran into my next problem, I got up to my CLI class and everything is loading fine but when I try to go one level deeper which is one of the requirements the attributes would appear but no information. I was certain it had to be from something in my API class that wasn't set up correctly for this info to load. So I spent a day working on that trying to figure out what it was and then it was complete, something simple. Although I wanted to put some sort of design to spruce it up a bit because my eyes were tired of looking at the black and white colors in the CLI. That was my project, it was honestly very frustrating I had an idea of what it would look like and how it would go but I didn't realize how fast the time goes by when I was working on this and how little I would get done. Although I was having some fun with it, recognizing all of the methods I was using came from the first few weeks of grinding away with the lessons made me realize that I at least retained some knowledge of what I'm studying. 
