---
layout: post
title:      " Rails Project "
date:       2020-03-23 04:03:16 +0000
permalink:  rails_project
---

This is my third project for flatiron that we had to make using rails, the beginning of this project week started similar to how the Sinatra project week started. I didn't get started until late into the week because of personal reasons and what was going on in the world. Again like the previous project I didn't have an idea to start, my fall back would be something similar to what I worked on before. I was thinking something like movies but then I had to come up with some relationship since this project required has_many or many to many relationships. It also required to have a nested route and I thought I had that understanding down but when it came time to create the nested routes I was having some difficulties. First, I needed to come up with a has_many relationship for the models but I didn't really know how to make that work with movies. Then my next idea was set on exercise and a user, this was something I'm passionate about so I thought it was a good idea. However, I needed the third model to join everything together and I couldn't quite figure out what to use. I thought about routines that seemed to make sense at the time, a user has many routines through exercises and an exercise belongs_to both routine and user. So I started working on that idea, the first problem I came across was that I forgot to use the devise way of setting up the user model so when I figured that out I had to start over but I wasn't too far into the project. However, i realized I was having trouble combining the models to make the has_many and belongs_to relationship work. I didn't like the sound of routine it didn't fit well for me when it came to the model's relationships. I decided to switch it to workouts since it sounded better to me and flowed well when I thought about the relationships between the models. The two main problems I had with this project was the routing and the bond between the relationships it got really confusing sometimes. Finally, I decided that I didn't really like how workouts fit as the join table for the models, I decided that coaches worked better. Again I got started this time I remembered to use the devise gem correctly to set up the user model and the views. Mostly everything else felt comfortable and familiar since we did the Sinatra project which was similar to how the rails project and requirements are. What I did differently this time was use partials for some of the forms that use repetitious code like the new and edit form for the exercises model. I also used a partial form for the flash messages and rendered it through the form partial. I also added a navbar partial that I rendered throughout the application view file in the layouts folder. Originally I had this navbar file inside of a partials folder I put inside the layouts folder but I was throwing an error when I tried rendering it through the applications file. I googled for way too long trying to figure out why it wasn't rendering but couldn't find anything except that it could be a bug. I then decided to take it out the folder and just put it in the layouts folder itself and it finally rendered so maybe it was a bug or I was doing something wrong ill have to look into that more and figure out what the problem was. After playing around with that I just had some cosmetics to work on in the view files which I will still be working on after submitting because of i still don't like how things look but everything functional. I can't believe I'm already on the third project I never thought I was capable of doing anything like this the time just flies by and every time project week comes I always feel like I'm not ready but by the end of the week, I somehow finish the project and learn so much but still have a lot of questions. 
