---
layout: post
title:      "Sinatra Project "
date:       2020-02-22 23:19:40 -0500
permalink:  sinatra_project
---


Project week did not start well for me, because of family issues and personal issues I did not get started on the project early as I wanted. However, looking at the overview for the project and what it required I realized that it would be fun and not as stressful as the previous project. I already had the basic structure mapped out in my head and also I would be using the corneal gem to structure out the necessary files I would need. That was already a big relief for me, before project week I was worried about all the files I needed to create and what files I would need. The next problem I had to tackle was making sure my config.ru file was running and using the appropriate files I created. That seems to be one of the few things to forget and when the app breaks your left wondering how when you're certain you did everything right. So after checking I had the files set up correctly, I decided to watch some lecture videos that would assist me with my ideas on the project and help me understand what I was doing a bit better. Mainly it was to help when it came time for the project review since I started the project a little late into project week I figured some lectures on the subject would help refresh my mind. After watching a few lectures I had a grasp on what to do because the previous lessons and labs leading up to the project week were similar to what we were going to code. I decided to write down the framework of what I wanted to do before I started coding anything, this was a different approach I took because I thought it would be more helpful to me having a rough draft written down. The only issue I had was that I did not have a topic picked yet for what I wanted to do the app on. I was so caught up in trying to get started and worrying about getting the project done I was moving too many steps ahead. For whatever reasons I could not come up with an idea and it had to meet the requirement of a has_many belongs_to relationship. I was ready to code and get a majority of the project done and the only thing that was stopping me was the idea that it was going to be centered around, just that one small detail. Originally I was going to do it on something related to games but then I thought to do it on a movie list. It helps keep track of movies you've seen, it came to me after realizing me and my girlfriend struggle to remember all the movies we've seen and what to watch next. It's not a big thing but it's an app that meets all the requirements and after a very long week, I didn't think I would have the time to come up with something else. I already had everything mapped out in my rough draft so now that I had my models and what the app was going to be centered around it was time to code. The coding part wasn't too difficult I did come across some hiccups here and there like after logging in the page would load the login page again. Then at some stages, I would get confused as to what model needed what erb file and sometimes while coding it would feel like I was stuck in a loop. I think that was mainly because I was filling out multiple forms and everything felt familiar from when I was doing the labs. After setting up everything and constantly checking that it works I had to reform the welcome page to what I wanted it to say and also reform the layout page. Then came the final few steps in completing the project, it looks really basic because I didn't dabble much in the CSS portion of the bonus labs and because I started so late i didn't have the time to style the page or look into styling it. However, its an app that meets all the requirements for the project and I'm proud of myself for getting so far from scratch and recognizing certain things I was doing while working on this project. 
