---
layout: post
title:      "Javascript Project"
date:       2020-04-19 22:08:43 -0400
permalink:  javascript_project
---


This is the second to last project with Flatiron that is a SPA javascript with Rails API project. The idea I decided to do this project on was games, games, and genres linked to games. A genre has many games and a game belongs to a genre, that would be the relationship between my models in the rails backend API. To start I created the folder inside my projects folder and I called it games-to-play, then from there I would use rails scaffolding to generate the backend portion of this project. I entered the command rails new backend --API, that would generate the basics of what I needed for the API section. Then from there, I would create a folder called frontend and within the frontend folder, I would create another folder called javascript. This would be where I would have my classes for my models game and genre, then I would create a file called index.html, this would be my main display page the user sees. The contents that go into this file would be the title of the app and the forms for my models, genre, and games and also the application's files that I have within the javascript folder I would load through this file along with another file I created within the frontend folder called index.js. Index.js will have my javascript code for loading the buttons that would and content such as the title, length, and played status of the games and the genres to go along with it. This would mainly contain the fetch response for the URL to get the genres and game attributes loaded. Now in the backend folder, I use rails generators to create my models and the controllers, from there I added the associations for the models and while creating the migrations made sure to add the foreign key of genre_id to the games table. Then for the frontend, I created the classes for those models, genre and game within my javascript folder I created 2 files, one called genre.js and the other game.js. I came across one problem, my data from the API was not loading on the index.html page but I knew it was being created because when I went to the API server and entered in the URL `/games` or `/genres` the new game that I had created was there. After searching around for what would be the issue and looking at lecture videos from about backend I realized I didn't have my serializers folder set up even though I had the gem for active_model_serializers I didn't set up the genre and game serializer. So after setting those up my games appeared and I was able to create and save them. That was my javascript with rails API project, honestly, everything flew by without me realizing it was interesting working back and forth between the backend and frontend folders. After a few minutes, in the beginning, I decided to just have one terminal with the rails server running and open another terminal where I would be working in the frontend. 
